# Symbol review

## Keywords

1. and - logical "and" operator.
2. del - deletes objects, variables, class definitions, etc. Never use it unless low on memory. Let garbage collector take care of it.
3. from - used to import specific section from a module.
4. not - logical not operator.
5. while - while loop.
6. as - mostly used during import to create alias for a module. 
7. elif - else if 
8. global - useful to update a variable outside its current scope.
9. or - logical or.
10. with - like 'try with resources' in java. it automatically closes connections. 
11. assert - useful in debugging. checks if a condition is true else throws an assertion error.
12. else - catches the condition not caught by preceding condition.
13. if - check if a condition is true, if yes, execute a block of code. 
14. pass - placeholder for future code. prevents errors for empty functions, if blocks, etc.
15. yield - similar to return except it doesn't destroy variable state inside the function. When function called again, it resumes from last yield point.
16. break - break out from a loop.
17. except - used in exception handling. Can be used to handle a particular type of error mentioned next to except. 
18. import - import other code module into the current code.
19. print - prints the values to the terminal.
20. class - defines a class.
21. exec - executes a dynamically created program.
22. raise - used to raise an exception. Similar to throw in java.
23. continue - skip the remaining part of the iteration and go to next iteration. 
24. finally - added after try block. always executed even in case of exception.
25. is - used to test if two objects refer to the same data type.
26. return - ends the function and returns a value to the caller.
27. def - defines a function.
28. for - for looping.
29. lambda - anonymous function. it can take any number of parameters but can have only one expression.
30. try - test a code of block for errors.


## Data types
1. True - Boolean true
2. False - Boolean false
3. None - Similar to null
4. Strings - sequence of characters
5. numbers - integers
6. floats - numbers with decimal points
7. lists = collection of objects


## String escape sequences
1. \\\\ - used to print "\\".
2. \\' - used to skip ' as part of code but consider it in a string.
3. \\" - used to skip " as part of code but consider it in a string.
4. \\a - produces a bell sound when printed.
5. \\b - backspace when printed.
6. \\f - form feed - something like page break.
7. \\n - line feed or new line - terminates current line and move downward.
8. \\r - carriage return - move to the beginning of current line .
9. \\t - tab space.
10. \\v - vertical tab


## String formats
1. %d - placeholder for integer values.
2. %i - placeholder for integer values.
3. %o - placeholder for octal numbers.
4. %u - Obsolete type. it is identical to d.
5. %x - Signed hexadecimal lowercase.
6. %X - Signed hexadecimal uppercase.
7. %e - Floating point exponential format lowercase.
8. %E - Floating point exponential format uppercase.
9. %f - floating point decimal format.
10. %F - floating point deciaml format.
11. %g - Floating point - uses lowercase exp format if exponent is less than -4 or not less than precision, decimal format otherwise.
12. %G - Floating point - user uppercase exp format if exponent is less than -4 or not less than precision, decimal format otherwise.
13. %c - Single character.
14. %r - Raw string. Converts any python object usint repr().
15. %s - String. Converts any python object using str().
16. %% - No argument is converted, results in % character in the result.


## Operators 
1. '+'  	- numerical addition or string concat.
2. '-'  	- numerical subtraction.
3. '*'  	- numerical multiplication.
4. '**' 	- exponent or power.
5. /		- division.
6. //		- integer division.
7. %		- mod
8. \<		- less than.
9. \> 		- greater than.
10. \<= 	- less than equal.
11. \>=		- greater than equal.
12. ==		- equals comparator.
13. != 		- not equals comparator.
14. \<\>	- not equals comparator <- verify
15. \( \)	- tuple
16. \[ \]	- lists
17. \{ \}	- dictionary
18. @		- annotation
19. , 	    - 
20. :	    - 
21. .	    - 
22.	=		- assignment operator
23.	;		- end of line specifier
24.	+= 		- add a value to a variable
25.	-=		- subtract a value from a variable
26.	*=		- multiply a value to a variable
27.	/=		- divide a value from a variable
28. //= 	- integer divide from a variable
29. %=  	- mod operator
30. **=		- raise to a power and store it in same variable
